GDB-10778 Added GraphDB configuration examples (#122)
Ontotext-AD/graphdb-helm: examples/configuring/README.md

Configuring GraphDB
===

This document provides detailed instructions on how to configure GraphDB, 
including setting properties, secret properties, and additional configurations. 

It covers various methods to manage configuration options, such as using 
ConfigMaps and Secrets, and highlights some good practices to ensure secure 
and efficient setup. Additionally, it explains how to set Java arguments 
and environment variables for GraphDB.

All GraphDB configuration options can be found 

> [here](https://graphdb.ontotext.com/documentation/10.0/configuring-graphdb.html#configuration-properties).

Reviewer: `10.0` ???

Author: In version 10.7 the documentation link does not keep all configurations, and information for them, in the same place.
instead, they are scattered across several sections, or at least this is the way I see it

Reviewer 2: https://graphdb.ontotext.com/documentation/10.7/directories-and-config-properties.html#general-properties

Author: thanks, I focused more on the main sections of the documentation, not the reference one...

Author: fixed

## Properties

> This section is used to set environment variables directly from the `values.yaml` file. 

Reviewer: They are not set as env variables, they are inserted in the default graphdb.properties configmap

The configurations will be stored in a ConfigMap. These properties typically include 
non-sensitive informatin, such as product settings.

```yaml
configuration:
  properties:
    graphdb.workbench.importDirectory: "/opt/graphdb/home/graphdb-import"
    graphdb.cluster.sync.timeoutS: 600
    graphdb.workbench.maxConnections: 10
```

## Secret Properties

This section is used to set secret properties directly from the `values.yaml` file.
The configuration will be stored in a Kubernetes Secret.
These properties typically include sensitive information, such as passwords or API keys.

```yaml
configuration:
  secretProperties:
    graphdb.connector.keystorePass: "xxxx"
```

> **Warning: This method of configuring GraphDB is strongly discouraged, as it may 

Reviewer: Mention which is the proper approach (`configuration.extraProperties.existingSecret` & `extraEnvFrom`/`extraEnv`)

lead to secrets being exposed or stored insecurely!**

## Extra Properties

> This section explains how to configure extra properties for GraphDB using 

Reviewer: Add additional info that the chart expects these to contain graphdb.properties files that will be merged with the default one. To add inline properties, users should use  `configuration.properties` and `configuration.secretProperties`

existing Kubernetes ConfigMaps and Secrets. The resources mentioned in 
this section can be found in the [resources.yaml](./resources.yaml) file.

The appropriate resources are used for each specific case.

### Using existing ConfigMap

```yaml
configuration:
  extraProperties:
    existingConfigmap: custom-graphdb-properties
    # configmapKey: graphdb.properties   # Default key
```

### Using existing Secret

```yaml
configuration:
  extraProperties:
    existingSecret: custom-graphdb-secret-properties
    secretKey: graphdb-secrets.properties
```

## Java Arguments

This section explains how to set Java arguments for GraphDB using the 
values.yaml file. The javaArguments field allows you to specify Java 
Virtual Machine (JVM) options, such as memory settings. These settings 

> help optimize the performance and resource usage of the GraphDB instance.

Reviewer: This also supports setting GraphDB properties in the `-D<property>=<value>` format.

Configuring GraphDB
===

This document provides detailed instructions on how to configure GraphDB, 
including setting properties, secret properties, and additional configurations. 

It covers various methods to manage configuration options, such as using 
ConfigMaps and Secrets, and highlights some good practices to ensure secure 
and efficient setup. Additionally, it explains how to set Java arguments 
and environment variables for GraphDB.

All GraphDB configuration options can be found 
[here](https://graphdb.ontotext.com/documentation/10.0/configuring-graphdb.html#configuration-properties).

## Properties

> This section is used to set default ConfigMap properties directly from the `values.yaml` file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is used to set GraphDB properties in the default ConfigMap for graphdb.properties directly from the `values.yaml` file. 
```

graphdb.properties directly from the `values.yaml` file.
The configurations, typically including non-sensitive information such as product settings, 
will be merged with the properties in the default ConfigMap.

```yaml
configuration:
  properties:
    graphdb.workbench.importDirectory: "/opt/graphdb/home/graphdb-import"
    graphdb.cluster.sync.timeoutS: 600
    graphdb.workbench.maxConnections: 10
```

## Secret Properties

This section is used to set default Secret properties directly from the `values.yaml` file.

> The configurations, typically including sensitive information such as licenses and secret tokens,

Reviewer: > such as licenses

Care to give an example?

```yaml
configuration:
  secretProperties:
    graphdb.connector.keystorePass: "xxxx"
```

**Warning: This method of configuring GraphDB is strongly discouraged, as it may 
lead to secrets being exposed or stored insecurely!**

## Extra Properties

This section explains how to configure extra properties for GraphDB using 

> existing Kubernetes ConfigMaps or Secrets. The resources mentioned in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an existing Kubernetes ConfigMap or an existing Secret. The resources mentioned in 
```

this section can be found in the [resources.yaml](./resources.yaml) file.

The appropriate resources are used for each specific case.

> The chart expects these to contain a key, specified by configmapKey or 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chart expects these to contain a key, specified by `configmapKey` or 
```

> secretKey for the Secret resource, with a default of graphdb.properties. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`secretKey` for the Secret resource, with a default of graphdb.properties. 
```

The content of this key will be merged with the content of the default ConfigMap and Secret.

### Using existing ConfigMap

```yaml
configuration:
  extraProperties:
    existingConfigmap: custom-graphdb-properties
    # configmapKey: graphdb.properties   # Default key
```

### Using existing Secret

```yaml
configuration:
  extraProperties:
    existingSecret: custom-graphdb-secret-properties
    secretKey: graphdb-secrets.properties
```

## Java Arguments

This section explains how to set Java arguments for GraphDB using 

> the values.yaml file. The javaArguments field allows you to specify 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `values.yaml` file. The `configuration.javaArguments` field allows you to specify 
```

> the `values.yaml` file. The `configuration.javaArguments` field allows you to specify 

Reviewer: > the `values.yaml` file.

?? I sense some find/replace

Author: maybe, maybe not

Java Virtual Machine (JVM) options, such as memory settings, to optimize 
the performance and resource usage of the GraphDB instance.

> It also supports arguments in the form of -Dproperty=value."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also supports GraphDB properties in the form of `-Dproperty=value`
```

```yaml
configuration:
  javaArguments: "-Xms4G -Xmx4G"
```

## Extra Environment Variables from a source

> This section explains how to add extra environment variables to a GraphDB 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how to configure GraphDB with environment variables...
```

deployment using existing Kubernetes ConfigMaps and Secrets. This approach 
ensures that additional configurations are injected alongside existing 
ones without mixing different contexts. 

The resources referenced in this section can be found in the [resources.yaml](./resources.yaml) file.

```yaml
extraEnvFrom:
  - configMapRef:
      name: "connector-properties"
  - secretRef:
      name: "connector-secret-properties"
```

## Extra Environment Variables

This section demonstrates how environment variables can be directly set up in the Helm 

> chart's values.yaml file, eliminating the need to configure them separately in a ConfigMap or Secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chart's `values.yaml` file, eliminating the need to configure them separately in a ConfigMap or Secret.
```

```yaml
extraEnv:
  - name: "graphdb.workbench.importDirectory"
    value: "/opt/graphdb/home/graphdb-import"
```

## Final words

The most recommended way of configurating GraphDB ais by uisng existing resources, expecially for

> the sensitive information. In this cases configuration.extraProperties.existingSecret and extraEnvFrom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the sensitive information. In this cases `configuration.extraProperties` and `extraEnvFrom`
```

are most suitable for this.

> For non-sensitive information all ways of configurationn are viable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For non-sensitive information any method of configuring GraphDB is viable.
```

```

## Secret Properties

This section is used to set default Secret properties directly from the `values.yaml` file.
The configurations, typically including sensitive information such as secret tokens (eg. OpenAI API tokens), 
will be merged with the properties in the default Secret.

```yaml
configuration:
  secretProperties:
    graphdb.connector.keystorePass: "xxxx"
```

**Warning: This method of configuring GraphDB is strongly discouraged, as it may 
lead to secrets being exposed or stored insecurely!**

## Extra Properties

This section explains how to configure extra properties for GraphDB using
an existing Kubernetes ConfigMap or an existing Secret. The resources mentioned in
this section can be found in the [resources.yaml](./resources.yaml) file.

The appropriate resources are used for each specific case.

The chart expects these to contain a key, specified by `configmapKey` or
`secretKey` for the Secret resource, with a default of graphdb.properties.
The content of this key will be merged with the content of the default ConfigMap and Secret.

### Using existing ConfigMap

```yaml
configuration:
  extraProperties:
    existingConfigmap: custom-graphdb-properties

>     # configmapKey: graphdb.properties   # Default key

Author: It is commented out because it is the default value, but it is not removed so the end user is aware that this particular key will be required.

I'm not sure what you mean by "incorrect indentation." Please elaborate

>     # configmapKey: graphdb.properties   # Default key

Reviewer 3: The 'configmapKey' value should be on the same level as 'existingConfigmap'.

```

### Using existing Secret

```yaml
configuration:
  extraProperties:
    existingSecret: custom-graphdb-secret-properties
    secretKey: graphdb-secrets.properties
```

## Java Arguments

This section explains how to set Java arguments for GraphDB using
the `values.yaml` file. The `configuration.javaArguments` field allows you to specify 
Java Virtual Machine (JVM) options, such as memory settings, to optimize 
the performance and resource usage of the GraphDB instance.

It also supports GraphDB properties in the form of `-Dproperty=value`

```yaml
configuration:
  javaArguments: "-Xms4G -Xmx4G"
```

> 

Reviewer 3: An example for configuring properties in the `-Dproperty=value` could be added

Author: Will be added

## Extra Environment Variables from a source

This section explains how to configure GraphDB with environment variables

> using existing Kubernetes ConfigMaps and Secrets. This approach 

Reviewer 3: Change to 'using an existing Kubernetes ConfigMap or an existing Secret.'

Configuring GraphDB
===

> 

Reviewer: Add some paragraph explaining what this readme is about as well each example purpose...
